Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo and the Prius tutorial we finished off with this beautiful
distribution of our customers by age.
And today we're going to create an identical distribution but it will be of customers by balance.
So if you would like to perform an additional exercise and test your skills then you can pose as a Tauriel
right now and create a distribution for the customers by balance and then play the editorial and compare
and see how I did it and how you did it and see what the differences were and if you got the same result.
So now we're going to proceed to creating this distribution and the process is exactly the same as we
did with this distribution by a.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And you tab.
I'm going to call its distribution by balance by balance.
Okay.
And now as last time first we're going to create a balance create bins we'll make them 10000 units of
currency bins and now we will take the balance been a variable drag it in two columns will take number
of records and Toro's there is our distribution.
Now we will take some number of records control hold control and drag it into color.
There it is so maybe we can make it a bit smaller.
That's good.
Now we will change we will get rid of this header will change.
First of all we will change of course we will change quick tempo calculational change just 2 percent
of total.
And here we will also change to 2 percent or basically will just take this one and will drag it into
color doesn't really change the color but just for consistency one LOL here what that means is that
there is no values in the one hundred and fifty something's going to rotate these labels in the 150000
there's no values and you can filter data and exclude that.
No but I prefer to keep it.
So I'm just going to press controls.
And to remove this indicator from the churches right click it and click hide indicator.
OK.
So that's our charts.
And now we're going to quickly format it so I'll change the Xs here.
Total percent of customers.
And now we will format hear the whole chart bold OK.
So that's our charts maybe make some more space so that the columns or the names of the columns fit
in.
And now what we want to do is we want to learn how to work with parameters.
So at this stage we haven't touched on parameters yet but it is time for us to learn how to leverage
the true power of this tool and Tablo and use.
Todd Wantage in this dashboard so well how can we use parameters here and what are they.
Well imagine that you want to dynamically adjust this physical.
Let's say for instance you want to be able to change the size of the bins like right now you're not
happy with 10000 units of currency per been.
And you want to change it well you need to go to balance being right click it click Edit and you have
to change this to 5000 if you want 5000 or 20000 or whatever you want.
And every time doing that can be a bit tedious and especially in daughter exploration and data discovery.
You need to be agile you need to be able to quickly adjust these things because that can help you find
anomalies.
So for instance here it's a gradual drop off but when you change it to five thousand dollar bills you
can see this spike and it's quite anomalous and you might want to understand what exactly is going on
there.
So whereas you couldn't have you wouldn't have seen it from this chart and how quickly you can adjust
the size of the bins determines how many how much insights you can produce.
So we will create a parameter which will allow us to adjust these the size of these bins very quickly.
I'm going to write cookand measures and here I will say create a parameter the parameter we'll call
it let's call it balance balanced groups because we work here of balance it will be an integer parameter
and we will start off with ten thousand and we'll be working for a range so the minimum value of the
parameter.
Let's say there's no not much point going below $5000 buckets or $5000.
The maximum.
25000.
Sounds like a lot already.
And the step size can be 5000 as well.
So we've created a parameter.
Now we're right click the parameter and we click Show parameter control and it appears over here.
So now you can just change the parameter and.
Well right now nothing's happening of course of the chart.
And that's because we haven't linked the parameter to our balance bins.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to look at it and here are size of bins.
It conveniently prompts you to select a parameter when you click the dropdown.
I already have a parameter has bounds group so select that click OK.
And now if we change the parameter around you can see that the size of the bins is changing and therefore
the number of columns is changing.
So you can see here that now I can very quickly dynamically adjust this chart and get to the insights
that I want and that is a lot of power is sort of.
That's not the only usage of parameters.
And now that you know that you have this option to create parameters which you can quickly just use
to have more control over your worksheets you will naturally come up with other ways to use them as
you create more visualizations.
But this is one of the good use cases.
So let's not go to distribution by age and do the same thing will create a parameter here and we will
call it age groups.
Parameter parameters all parameters to be an integer so a whole number.
This someone wants a list of values rather than a range.
We want a list.
Let's say we want to only 3 types of values for 1 5 and 10 click OK.
And now we have a parameter age groups we will show parameter control here.
Also we wanted to be a slider and of course we want to connect it to our chart.
So let's go right click Edit h bin and sort of this fixed value for the size of bins we can recreate
age or select age groups once we selected that well here you can see it's a bit.
It's extended out charred quite a lot but that doesn't really matter because the dashboard won't be
the case but we can always want to reduce the size of this data.
This is a worksheet even here if we wanted to but let's have a look at what happens when we change the
size of the been.
So if we click to the right now the size of business five years now the size of the business 10 years
and you can see that the chart is adjusting as we do that.
So that is the power of parameters have a play around with that and see how we think of other cases
where you might be able to use parameters in your work with Tablo.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then I'll be analyzing.